a lot of noise is being made in the
yachting industry it is so loud that it
has become impossible to ignore
unusually though the noise has not come
as a result of expensive advertising
campaigns or outrageous claims and
promises the noise has come simply by a
new brand arriving on the scene and
selling a lot of yachts ironically the
name of the brand making all of this
commotion is silent yachts silent yachts
were certainly too loud for me to ignore
even before I published a video about
them
viewers were writing to me to ask for
information about the company and then
when I did mention them in a video the
comment section below was full of
questions from viewers who wanted to
know more now this level of interest is
easy to understand
silent yachts are pioneering the use of
solar energy to power luxury catamarans
and the yacht buying public love what
they are doing the can Yacht Show this
year I took the opportunity to meet
Michael Kohler the co-founder of the
company and get a few more details about
the concept behind the company if you
haven't seen that interview yet there'll
be a link to it at the end of this video
during the conversation we spoke about
the fact that he would be building their
largest ever model the silence 80 in
Ancona
Italy and we agreed that this could be a
wonderful opportunity to document the
construction of this yacht through my
youtube channel something we didn't talk
about though was the story behind
Michael and his wife Heike who are
passionate sailors and have spent over
six thousand days on their yachts and
navigated more than 75 thousand nautical
miles around the world
in their pursuit to find a more
efficient energy supply fianc they built
a test catamaran and they used it for
trials and improvements over a five-year
period
covering around 15,000 nautical miles
the catamaran called solar wave 46 went
on to become the world's first fully
self-sufficient blue water catamaran and
it was the starting point for the silent
yachts range and so that brings me to
here in Italy's wonderful and
picturesque region of Lamarque II where
we pick up the story in an area called
Murata
bon doleful sooo be fair this is not the
most picturesque part of Lamarque e
because along with the region's
beautiful rolling landscapes and
incredible cuisine of course there are
industrial areas too and the yacht
building industry is a big contributor
to the economy of the region this
company for example builds large
composite components such as holes and
super structures for many of Italy's top
yacht builders so they were a great
choice to make the main composite
components for the first silence 80
on my first visit to the shipyard I met
Cristiano Mariani who's the general
manager for the project and he showed me
one half of the deck mold for the yacht
now as you can imagine a mold that is
almost 36 feet wide is pretty difficult
to transport by Road so it split into
two pieces
and here I could see the process of the
various layers of fiberglass and resin
being laid onto the mold and left to
harden in a vacuum bag so that
absolutely no air voids will be present
in the finished piece this is a tried
and tested technique that was pioneered
by the Pershing shipyard also from
Murata Montalvo and you can be sure that
hulls that are strong enough for
high-powered and high-performance yachts
like Pershing's should certainly be a
good fit for the rather more peaceful
use that a solar-powered catamaran is
likely to get and while the decks are
already in an advanced stage of
production
Christiano showed me the holes that have
already been removed from their molds
and are ready to be joined you can see
the points at which the two pieces will
be bolted together but of course on top
of that several layers of composite
material be added so that the two
separate units become inseparably
married together
the engineers who draw up the whole lair
program aim to make the point that where
the two pieces are joined together will
be the strongest part of the yacht
rather than the weakest for obvious
reasons and the holes will need to bear
quite some weight to the plan is for the
porthole to contain the yachts tender
while the starboard hull will have
enough space for jet skis if the owner
so desires further forward there will be
guest accommodation and there's a
variety of layouts available that we'll
look at in future videos for now though
let's move just a few miles south from
Murata moldova the coastal city of
ancona with many of Italy's most
impressive and successful yacht builders
can be found
[Music]
now at this point I should explain to
you that whilst silent yachts own the
brand the designs when the technology of
each model they collaborate mostly with
German and Italian designers and naval
architects to find the best people to
actually build the yacht in the case of
the silent 80 that we'll be featuring in
this series of videos they selected the
consortium nerve alley the ancona
a consortium of companies that supply
vital products and services to the yacht
building industry these people have
decades of experience of building up to
a very high level indeed
on my visit to silent yachts Christiana
showed me this huge building as being
earmarked to receive the hulls and super
structures of the silence 80 model and
to fit them out
ready for launch and delivery the
building was very familiar to me since
years ago during my time working at the
crn shipyard we use this same factory to
build the mold of the custom line Nevada
43 meter now a large portion of this
same area
she'll be dedicated to building the
silence 18 range of catamarans Cristiano
is telling me that there's still a lot
of work to be done here those doors for
example need to be widened so that an 80
foot catamaran can pass through them it
seems to me to be a very safe investment
though already silent yachts have sold
the first four units of that 80 foot
model and they've committed to building
the first five if I sound amazed by that
it's because I really AM so many yacht
builders think up beautiful yachts go
ahead and build them and then struggle
to get them sold in spite of the fact
that the yacht itself is very well built
here though is a brand that nobody had
heard of not long ago but that's
announcing sale after sale after sale in
spite of the fact that they don't have
an eye-watering marketing budget the
reason for this in my opinion is that
Michael and Heike Kohler didn't go about
trying to create an
in the market that they believed existed
driven by a desire for commercial
success it was the market itself that
was crying out so loudly for
environmentally friendly solutions to
yachting and they asked consumers
themselves fell that cry within
themselves so loudly though motivated to
do something about it the commercial
success has come as a byproduct of them
listening to what the market wants in
future videos we'll be looking at the
progress that they make with that first
silence 80 as the hulls and the
superstructure arrives here in Ancona
but we'll also be taking a closer look
at how a silent yachts harness that
solar energy to power an 80 foot luxury
catamaran so that as they say in their
promotional material the only footprints
that the owner leaves are in the sand
[Music]
you